When I was growing up, I felt a societal pressure to find a passion. I remember in middle school, I would write long and rather depressing blog posts about how I had no passion, never was going to find any passion, that passion was a total fallacy, and that the only salvation in one's life was to simply accept the fact and embrace complacency. It was during this time that I felt frustrated that none of the things that I found interesting were things that I could feel truly passionate about. I remember that during high school I mostly tried to ignore the preoccupation with passion and just do interesting things that kept my mind occupied and grew my sense of self worth (although I did have to up my passion-game for my college essays). 

The peak of my interest in finding passion, or a passion, was the middle of sophomore year in college when I was at a pool party for a pre-med society. I remember a group of us were sitting around a table in the kitchen when somebody said to me, "You look like such a doctor". It was then that I had a sinking feeling in my stomach: I realized that I didn't want to go into medicine. I couldn't quite pin it down, but I knew that something important had happened: My feigned passion bumped up against something that felt very solid, not like previous soft doubts that I was able to put into the back of my mind. By the end of the semester, I had changed my major to Computer Engineering, and I felt a lot more comfortable about myself.

Since then, I haven't been able to express what I bumped up against that night at the pool party. Was it because I felt like I didn't belong like these people, these people who were so closely tied their self-worth to how they modeled a pre-med archetype? People who you couldn't feel like you could be competely honest with, because of a suspicion you had that perhaps they are judging you in the same way? For a long time, I thought it was because it was because of these strange other people, people who I couldn't fit in with.

But thinking about it now, it wasn't so much that I couldn't fit in with these other people. Rather, it was a problem with myself, and how I defined success. For me, I had always thought that success came through passion, and that passionate people always would win the race with life. I imagined all of my heroes as being heroes only because they were the most passionate. And even if I could never be truly passionate, maybe I could at least achieve some success if I could fake it.

I recently read the self-help book "7 Habits of Highly Effective People". The preface begins by categorizing self-help books written in the past century to self-help books written before then. The author argues that in the past couple decades self-help books have been focused on the wrong thing: the Personality Ethic. The Personality Ethic is the philosophy that success comes from personality traits, skills, and techniques. The Personality Ethic focuses mainly on how to create the right image for yourself, how to "appear to be" rather than "actually be". The author argues that instead, we should be focused on the Character Ethic. On traits such as Integrity, Fidelity, Courage, Compassion, Contribution, Responsibility, and Justice. It sounds a little corny (a little?), but his explanation stuck in my mind because it sounded to me like what I had long experienced: a belief that
